The next few lessons we're going to be building out a calorie counter.
So basically it's going to ask the user for a bunch of inputs.
It's going to make a calculation of how many calories they use or should be taking per day.
So to start this type of project off we actually need a formula first.
So I'm going to go over to Wikipedia and they have a really good formula here for the Basel metabolic
rate.
So basically it will calculate what your calorie intake should be per day.
And it's got a bunch of formulas down here so we're going to take one of these formulas down here and
we're going to apply it within our application.
So we've got an imperial calculation and the metric calculation.
So let's go ahead and copy these out.
Open up into our editor and I get to just place it within the script area so that we can reference them
later.
And there's also the metric calculation there so if you're building out a metric calculator you could
use the metric formula.
Now it is important to be able to
gather all of the correct information within the same format as the formula.
So now we're ready to go ahead and set up our form.
So this is going to be street h t M-L where we set up our form.
Let's give it an ID so that we can reference that.
So just call it my form and then within here we're going to add all of our inputs.
So looking at the formula we need to determine whether it's a male or a female.
So for that we could just use radio buttons.
So we'll give her an ID of f and give it a type of button is a radio button and give it a name.
So this is for essentially for the gender and so if this one is checked off this is going to be for
female.
And then the other one is going to be for male.
So it's two female that's going to wrap it in a div here.
So both of these I want on that same line.
So it's just do it like this and leave a space.
Copy that and I copy this one out.
I'm going to change this into a male so next value that we need we need to get a weight.
We see that the next item in the formula is weight.
So that's in pounds.
So let's go ahead and add that input.
So this one is going to be weight
and just an input.
And we're going to do a new American put.
So give us an idea of weight so that we can reference that later within our javascript.
Give it a type.
So the type is going to be number.
And let's set a default value.
So usually I like tabs of these default values where we start out here.
So the next one that we need is height.
So I going to remove some of the whitespace here.
Copy this one.
So we've got wait and let's do height now.
So height is going to be imperial.
So we're doing feet and inches.
So let's first do height in.
So the first one is going to be height in feet.
So this is going to be a number.
We'll give it a default value of 5.
And the next one is going to be inches.
So I have another input field right next to it.
And this one is going to be the height in inches so it's not one in inches and we'll give it all so
we can leave the default value or maybe will do default value of 6.
And also I'm going to set a max value here so the max value that I want the user to be able to input
is 11.
And let's set a minimum value.
So let's set the minimum value of 0.
So this is all going to be him L5 that's going to control this.
And after this input so do feats and this one was going to do this and wait so do pounds for weight.
And now let's do another one.
So we need to get age.
So the next one that we need to do is age and we'll do an input for age.
So just use the ideal age and we'll give it a value of 30.
So this is a number of years.
And we also have one more value down here so this is recommended intake depending on how active the
individual is.
So we can set a number from what from 1 to 5 and depending on what the number is we can add that into
our formula.
So let's do that in as well.
So do one more value here and this is going to be just a numeric value.
So this is going to be maybe something like lifestyle or something like that
and we'll give it an idea of lifestyle as well.
And so this is a number and this is going to be a number anywhere from 1 to 5.
So do men value of one and max value of five.
So there we can restrict it.
And as
well just do one equals low activity
and 5 equals high high activity.
So there we go.
So let's save that let's clean it up a little bit with the beautify function.
Go back out and refresh it.
So there we go.
So now we're we've got all of our inputs and maybe one of these we can set to the default.
So next what we need to do is hook up the Javascript.
So that's coming next in the next lesson.
We've got all of our inputs here all ready to go.
And the way that we're going to set up our javascript is that if any of these values change that we're
going to fire off a javascript function.
So we're looking at the On Change event listener.
So what I want you to do now is to try to go ahead and set up the javascript function that's going to
listen for any changes within these inputs.
And I'm going to show you the solution coming up in the next lesson and I'll give you a hint for the
solution that we're going to be looking at a change within the entire form.
So I'm not going to be looking at changes individually into the inputs because there's quite a few of
those.
So I want to try to save myself some time and only look for changes within the form.
So go in and set that up.
Open up your editor and build out an event listener that listens for changes within any one of these
inputs within the form and then fires off a function.
And also the solution coming up in the next lesson.